# Support policy for Arti (draft)

We intend, in the long term, that Arti should work and provide privacy
on all major desktop and mobile operating systems.  In actuality,
however, our current resources and infrastructure only allow us to run
Arti's tests on a subset of the environments that we want to support.

Please read this document as a rough statement of intent, not as a formal
promise. For now, we'll deviate from these policies whenever it we think it
makes sense, and we'll amend from time to time without notice.

## Elements of support

For this document, we define the following support tiers.

If a configuration is **unsupported**:

  * We do not typically accept patches related to the configuration.
  * We do not issue security advisories related to the configuration.
  * We close tickets related to the configuration as wont-fix.

If a configuration is **community-supported**:

  * We accept clean patches for improved features on the configuration.
  * We accept clean patches for bugfixes on the configuration.
  * At our discretion, we work on fixing bugs that affect the
    configuration.

Additionally, if configuration is **maintained**:

  * We commit not to knowingly make releases that break the
    configuration.
  * If we learn that the configuration is broken, we prioritize fixing
    it.
  * We write and announce security advisories if we learn about security
    issues in the configuration.


Additionally, if configuration is a  **target**:

  * It is a higher priority for us than other **maintained**
    configurations.
  * We'd like to make it a **tested** configuration, if we have the
    resources.  We intend to add more testing to it until it can become
    **tested**.

Additionally, if a configuration is **tested**:

  * We have automated systems to make sure that the configuration
    builds and runs tests correctly.
  * We have one or more team members who "dogfood" the configuration,
    using it ourselves to get rapid notifications about usability
    problems.

(Note that no broad configuration can be fully **tested** in all of its
permutations.  For example, our automated tests can only be run on a
limited set of the number of Linux distributions and versions, when in
fact there are vast numbers of possible Linux installations whose
variations might affect our behavior.)


## Operating systems

Our top priorities are the following operating systems:

  * Android (**target**)
  * Linux (**target**, **tested**)
  * OSX (**target**)
  * Windows (**target**)
  * iOS (**target**)

We only support modern versions of these operating systems.  If the
upstream providers of the operating system no longer provides security
patches for it, it is usually **unsupported**.  Some old versions may
be **maintained** or **community-supported**, depending on their
age and the difficulty of working with them.

We currently have automated tests on Linux only.  On OSX and Windows, we
have automated builds, but the tests are not (yet) run.  In the long
run, we aim to have automated builds and testing for all of our these
platforms.

All other modern Free operating systems are **community-supported**:
we're happy to fix bugs as they're encountered, and we're happy to take
good clean patches.  Some may become **maintained** in the future,
depending on the level of interest, the size of the userbase, and
resources available.

Other proprietary operating systems are **unsupported**.

## CPU Architectures

Only X86-64 is currently **tested**.

32-bit X86, and 64-bit ARM are **target**.

Modern-enough 32-bit ARM is **maintained**.

All other CPUs are **community-supported** or **unsupported**.

## Dependencies

Our _minimal_ dependencies, as listed in our `Cargo.toml` files, are
expected to work.  We have automated tools to make sure that Arti builds
and passes tests with these minimal dependencies on Linux.

We do not guarantee that these minimal dependencies are free of security
issues: If you use Arti as a library, you need to use tools like `cargo
audit` to regularly check for reported security advisories with the
crates that you use.

Our _production_ dependencies, as listed in our `Cargo.lock` file and as
used to build binaries, are what we actually recommend.  We will
actively work ourselves to keep them up-to-date and secure.

Dependency versions older than those listed in our `Cargo.toml` files
are **unsupported**.


## Rust versions

We define our "minimum supported rust version" (MSRV) as the oldest
version of Rust that we expect Arti to build with.

We have automated tools to make sure that Arti builds and passes tests
with our MSRV and our minimal (`Cargo.toml`) dependencies.  Production
dependencies (`Cargo.lock`) are not tested with our MSRV, and may or may
not work.

Our current MSRV is 1.56.  We may update our MSRV to a newer version in
the future: when we do, we'll only require a version released at least
six months in the past, and we won't update our requirements for no
reason.

Rust versions older than our MSRV are **unsupported**.

## Supported versions of Arti

For now (pre 1.0.0), only the most recent version of Arti is supported
at all.

In more detail:

 * The only versions that get any automated testing are the
   latest version from the git `main` branch, and other branches that are
   considered for merge to it.
 * We don't accept patches that aren't written to apply to `main`.
 * If we have to make any urgent bugfix-only releases, we will apply
   those fixes only to the most recently released version of Arti.

We will revisit and change this policy in the future.

## API compatibility

Although we aim to provide a forward-compatible API for some of our
high-level crates (notably `arti-client`) in the future, we aren't yet
at a point where we can do that.  Between now and Arti 1.0.0, users
should expect that each Arti release will possibly break API
compatibility.

## Security Advisories

We will classify security issues as Research, Critical, High, Medium and
Low-severity, as per [tor's security policy].

For now (pre 1.0.0) we will issue advisories for High and Critical
security vulnerabilities only.

Also (pre 1.0.0) we will not typically issue advisories for older Arti
releases: we assume that all developers are upgrading regularly.

[tor's security policy]: https://gitlab.torproject.org/tpo/core/team/-/wikis/NetworkTeam/SecurityPolicy
